Macaroni and Cheese
Amazing mac and cheese recipe with 5:1 cheese to pasta ratio - it's the ultimate tour of Italian greatness in America!

This is one of my favorite pasta dishes, prepared with gouda, cream, ricotta, monterrey jack and fontina cheeses, then garnished with a touch of parsley.

Sure, the stuff from the box gets the job done, but it's not the same. Sometimes you've got to go to the source and make it from scratch, and with ingredients from just two main food groups, dairy and starch, what's holding you back?

This recipe is equally appropriate for a cold night watching a movie at home, or on the table at a pot luck. Wherever it's eaten, it's always impressed people and kept them coming back for more.
Step 1: Ingredients
Ingredients
The Cheeses:
3oz Cream
6oz Ricotta
8oz Monterey Jack
12oz Smoked Gouda (divided) (you can use regular if you like)
12oz Fontina (divided)

The Rest:
16oz (1 lb) elbow macaroni
2tbs Butter
2 cans Fat Free Evaporated Skim Milk

Not Pictured:
Salt and Pepper
Parsley

Tools
Pot large enough to fit all ingredients
9x13 baking dish
Colander
Step 2: Preparation
Preparation
Preparation
Separate and grate 4oz of Fontina and 4oz of Gouda to use later.

Slice or crumble hard cheeses so they melt easier when put into warm noodles.

(you can do this while water is warming up and boiling in the following step.)
Step 3: Boil the Mac
Boil the Mac
Boil the Mac
Look at the directions on your box of macaroni noodles, and cook for one minute less then optimal time.
(The noodles will continue to cook in the oven.)

When noodles are finished, strain in colander and put back into pot.
Step 4: Adding Ingredients
Adding Ingredients
Adding Ingredients
Adding Ingredients
Adding Ingredients3 More Images
Preheat to 350 degrees.

Add butter & Evaporated Milk to noodles, mix until butter melts

Add all Cream, Ricotta and Monterey Jack Cheese,
also add 8oz Gouda & 8oz Fontina

Mix everything together until mostly melted.

Add salt, pepper and parsley to taste.

Mix thoroughly.
Step 5: Swapping Containers
Swapping Containers
Swapping Containers
Swapping Containers
Swapping Containers
Pour Noodles from pot to 9x13 baking dish

sprinkle top with 4oz grated Gouda and 4oz grated Fontina

Place pan in preheated oven

wait 30 minutes, check

If the top looks golden brown, it's ready to take out.
If not, leave in for an extra 5 minutes.

Continue checking every five minutes.
Shouldn't require more then 45 minutes.

When golden brown, take out and let cool.
Step 6: Enjoy
Enjoy
Enjoy
Enjoy
Dish out, and enjoy your mac and cheese.


This is one of my favorite pasta dishes, prepared with Smoked Gouda to give it a slightly different flavor.

Everyone who's tried this, has expressed how much they enjoyed it. If you're wary about the smoked taste though, swapping in regular Gouda will produce the an excellent, non smoked flavor.